This is our seventh video update
since the start of the pandemic.
This one is about a very special topic
—you precious young ones.
How are you doing?
We want to commend you
for being active in the ministry,
not only that but attending meetings
and reading the Bible.
Many of you have even got baptized
during the pandemic!
We are so proud of you.
But we’re also concerned about you.
We’ve heard that many of you are struggling
with only seeing your friends on a screen
and not in person.
Some of you are dealing
with a lack of structure in your life.
And for many of you,
even school is different now.
We know this must be a hard time for you.
You’re not alone.
Many young ones
are facing the same challenges.
As you watch this video,
see if you can relate
to how these young ones feel.
Sometimes I struggle
with a negative attitude,
thinking that the coronavirus will never end.
My normal routine has completely changed.
It’s a very unusual situation.
At first, I was kind of just sitting
around all day, being lazy,
wishing I could hang out
with my friends like I used to.
I would stay up late and sleep in,
and I was losing track of time.
Not being able to associate
with my friends has been a real challenge.
Now that I’m spending
more time with my family,
I’m much more likely
to get irritated quickly.
Kids my age are always anxious
when their parents go to work.
They keep thinking,
‘Are they going to get infected?’
One of my biggest concerns
was that I would infect my family
—especially my grandparents.
When homeschooling started,
I found it very difficult
to study all on my own.
I felt overwhelmed and ended up
not being able to do anything.
I struggled with telephone witnessing
because I was afraid of the reaction
I would get from people.
Phone witnessing is a lot scarier
than letter writing for me.
My time in the ministry
has actually gone down.
This made me feel really sad.
When we were told
that we could no longer attend
meetings as usual,
it was like someone said,
“You may not see your family!”
I’ve really missed being able
to hug my brothers and sisters
and friends from the congregation.
Did some of those comments hit home
with you and your family?
Why don’t you pause this video
and think about it
or talk about it with your family?
For example,
which of those challenges
did you identify with the most?
We hope you had a good chat
about the challenges you’re dealing with.
We feel for you.
Jehovah does too.
He knows this is tough
and has promised
to help us through difficult times.
Let’s read what he promised at Isaiah 41:10
—Isaiah 41:10:
“Do not be afraid, for I am with you.
“Do not be anxious, for I am your God.
“I will fortify you, yes, I will help you,
“I will really hold on to you
with my right hand of righteousness.”
Did you catch that?
Jehovah has got you by the hand,
and he is not going to let go
during this pandemic.
He can give you the strength you need
to control your thinking
and to make the best of your circumstances.
In this next video,
listen to what is helping other young people
to deal with these challenges.
For those having a tough time,
I would encourage them
to not look back at what they can’t do
but to look at the new opportunities
they have now.
Making a plan helped me
to be organized in my daily life.
I made a to-do list, for example,
which was extremely helpful.
I decided I would study,
not because my parents told me to
but to be able to serve Jehovah.
That boosted my morale.
If I am frustrated or bored,
doing something creative helps.
Having creative outlets helped me to realize
that I don’t need to be
with my friends all the time.
So I started painting, sewing,
learning a new language and a new instrument,
and cooking and baking a lot more.
Arguments with my brother
—they happen.
But when we deliver food
or do good for others,
we both feel good about it
and we bond more.
Talk to your parents,
because the more you keep something inside,
the worse you’re going to feel.
Do not be afraid to talk about your feelings
with someone else.
It’s not a weakness but a sign of strength.
Whatever feelings you have
—even if sometimes
you don’t understand them yourself—
pour them out to Jehovah.
He will always help at the right time.
I talked to my parents.
They gave me some practical suggestions
on how I could spend
more time in the ministry,
such as letter writing
and sitting in on other people’s studies.
I was able to talk to a friend
at school about Jehovah.
She joined one of our Zoom meetings
and even gave a comment
during the Watchtower  Study,
which I was really happy about.
During this pandemic,
a lot of things have changed on this earth,
but we don’t have to be afraid.
You are not alone in this.
We are together in this.
Jehovah is by our side.
With Jehovah, we can succeed,
and we will be able to enjoy
that beautiful life in Paradise.
Did you hear anything
that those young ones said
that might help you?
Which solutions do you think
could work for you?
Go ahead and pause this video
and think about it
or talk about it with your family.
We’ll give you a moment now.
Did you come up with any good ideas?
I’m sure you did!
One of the keys to coping with this pandemic
is doing what it says at Philippians 1:10.
There we read:
“Make sure of the more important things.”
What are some
of those “more important things”?
The basics
—the Bible reading,
prayer,
field service
and, of course, family worship.
How about personal study?
That’s important too!
The Young People Ask  books
are a great place to find topics
that may be affecting you right now.
Some young ones
have started reading life stories.
One young sister
reads a different one every day.
It’s like traveling the globe
and hearing firsthand
how others have dealt with challenges.
You can find
those articles
on Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY ™.
Just type in “life stories.”
Here’s something else to think about:
What practical steps can we take
when feeling alone, or lonely?
Remember what Proverbs 18:1 says.
Let’s read it:
“Whoever isolates himself
“[that is, keeps to himself] . . .
rejects all practical wisdom.”
If you’re feeling alone,
it is “practical wisdom”
to reach out to others.
You may find
that some good conversation or laughter
with your friends from the congregation
—even over the phone—
is just what the doctor ordered.
Another way we can show “practical wisdom” is
by learning from the good examples
of other young ones.
You know, some young people
are in prison for their faith;
others are awaiting trial.
What helps them to cope?
You’ll find out in this interview
with Sister Darya Dulova from Russia.
When she was just 18,
her home was raided
and the government
started a criminal investigation
against her and her mom.
They raided our home on August 1, 2018.
My feelings at the time
were probably both fear and shock.
They told my mom that I needed
to be rescued from the mire;
otherwise, I would have no future,
no job, no family—nothing.
They opened a criminal case against me,
and I was found guilty.
Mom was given
a two-year conditional sentence,
and I received one year.
After a short time, they started
another criminal case against me,
and now these court proceedings
are ongoing.
I was afraid that they would send
my mom and me to prison.
So to somehow allay the fear,
I tried to spend more time in personal study.
That way, even if they did imprison me,
I would have more to meditate on.
Second Chronicles 20:17 encouraged me.
It says:
“Take your position,
stand still, and see the salvation
of Jehovah in your behalf.”
That means not just entrusting
Jehovah with your problems,
but it also means,
you know, waiting for him to act.
At the convention that took place
shortly before we were raided,
there was an interesting point made
about how humans
are actually 80 percent water.
So when they took me
into the interrogation room,
I sat down and looked at the interrogator.
And in my mind, I drew a dotted line
and filled him up with 80 percent water.
And when he started saying things like,
“Dasha, you’ve got no future,”
all I saw was him filling up with water.
In short, his threats didn’t bother me.
Because I felt Jehovah’s support
during those trials,
I’m no longer afraid to face new ones.
I am sure that Jehovah will support me.
His care may not come in a way that I expect,
but I know that it will always be
in a way that glorifies him.
And that’s a guarantee
that everything will be OK for me.
Isn’t it encouraging to see
how Darya has kept her integrity
and defended her faith?
Well, I’ve enjoyed talking to you young ones,
but I’d like to talk
to the rest of the family for a moment,
since this pandemic
has brought challenges to them too.
Parents, many of you
have been busier than ever,
supporting your children
with their remote schooling
while also working
and maintaining your homes
and keeping up
with your schedule of theocratic activities.
You’re trying to juggle it all.
We love you for it.
Jehovah does too.
What’s going to help us all get through this
is a good spiritual routine.
Parents, we commend you
for keeping family worship regular.
From time to time, can you include
some extended family members or friends
by videoconference or by telephone?
They’ll love that also, and so will you.
It warms our hearts
to see all that you young ones
are doing to stay close to Jehovah
during this time.
In spite of all that’s going on,
you’re continuing to grow spiritually.
We’re very proud of you,
and you can be sure
that Jehovah is proud of you too.
We want to extend the warm love
of the Governing Body
to every one of you.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®!